This file contains some general instructions for the use of TRAPPSURF. These were taken from my bachelor thesis. 


TRAPPSURFs stand-alone version needs two files in the directory from where it is executed.
The files are “input_conservation.txt” and the pdb-file of the query sequence. TRAPPSURF
can then be executed using the command “python {path}/stand_alone_conv_script.py”. The
generated output can be found in the folder “conservation”. The generated PyMol-session can
be found in this folder stored as “colored_str.pse”. The changed pdb-file of the query-sequence
including the conservation score as B-values is saved as “changed_str.pdb”. Furthermore, in
the folder all the output-files of the used programs (BLAST, ClustalO, R4S) can be accessed
as well.
The implementation in TRAPP can be executed by the command “python
{path}/conv_script_TRAPP.py” from the directory over the INP and OUT folder of TRAPP. The
“input_conservation.txt” file needs to be stored by the user in the INP-folder of TRAPP. After
TRAPPSURF finished its analysis, the user can find the output in “./OUT/conservation/”. The
output folder’s structure is identical to the stand-alone version. The changed PyMol scripts
and the preparation for the web-server can be found in their respective folders of TRAPP.

The default values in the 'input_conservation.txt' were taken from the EMBL-EBI job dispatcher. Be aware that depending
on the used search methods (NCBI BLAST and PSI-BLAST) the default values can differ and
needs to be changed accordingly. For further references refer to the EMBL-EBI job
dispatcher. The input-file does not contain all possible parameters which can be used for the
Job dispatcher as it was not possible to test all default parameters if they work with the
submission script. However, the user can define the most important parameters and a further
implementation of all the parameters should be feasible in the future.
The user needs to define the whole path to the python scripts for TRAPPSURF and their email.
This needs to be done only for the first analysis as this should not change between analyses.
The parameter that can change depending on the analysis is the name of the “rec_name”.
This parameter is the name of the pdb-file for the query sequence. It should be mentioned that
the whole name with extension needs to be declared as it won’t be automatically completed
by TRAPPSURF. The pdb-file should only contain the query protein and not any other
structures or water molecules. Furthermore, one should try to avoid multiple conformations of
the same residues as this can result in errors during the “plotting” module of TRAPPSURF. 
